HTML Tooltips (#3150)
sparkdesignsystem/spark-design-system: src/pages/using-spark/components/tooltips.mdx

---
  title: Tooltips
---
import ComponentPreview from '../../../components/ComponentPreview';
import { SprkDivider } from '@sparkdesignsystem/spark-react';
import tooltipExample from '../../../images/tooltips.png';

# Tooltips

The tooltips component appears as a popup design providing a short text description of information about a feature when the user hovers over the item.

<ComponentPreview
  componentName="tooltip--default-story"
  minHeight="10rem"
  hasHTML
/>

### Usage

Use tooltips when the feature needs to be explained in further detail to walk users through a specific action. It helps to draw the users' attention to a feature without interrupting their workflow.

### Guidelines

> - Appears when a user hovers over or clicks on the tooltips icon.

Reviewer: ``
```suggestion
- Appears when a user hovers over or clicks on the tooltip icon.
```

- Remains in view until the user actively dismisses.
- Located above other content on the page, but below a modal or masthead.
- Information should be discrete, short and concise.
- Do not use as a warning or alert.
- Do not include in links or modals.

<SprkDivider
 element="span"
 additionalClasses="sprk-u-Measure"
></SprkDivider>

## Anatomy

- Content within tooltips must be text based with a max character count of 140.

> - The maximum width of tooltips must be 290 px.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The maximum width of tooltips must be 290px.
```

- Position of design changes based on how close the feature is to the screen’s edge such as:

<img
  class="sprk-u-mbm"
  src={tooltipExample}
  alt="The Spark Tooltip component depicted in four different orientations."/>

## Accessibility
Tooltips must be discoverable and [operable](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#operable) by users that rely on a diverse set of established navigational means. Also, in compliance with [1.4.13: Content on Hover or Focus](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/content-on-hover-or-focus.html) WCAG rules, make sure that any content appearing on hover or focus is dismissible, hoverable, and persistent.

- Must be accessible by mouse, pointer devices, keyboard-only, screen reader, zoom software, and any other assistive technology.

> - Allow the mouse to easily move over the tooltip without dismissing it.

Reviewer: Are these items under the a11y section here additional work that people using our tooltip will do? That's how it is reading to me.
